For contractors, there are some additional rules that are required for you to be
paid in full for your work at Audienti.

 

**You are budgeted at 7 hours a day of productive work.  **

This means that you are expected to work that amount of time regularly and
consistently, and at peak performance.  Sometimes we might have to work more,
but the plan is for you to work 7 hours a day (unless your contract is for less
hours).

 

**You are expected to be a FULL time person. That means you don’t work other
jobs.**

We manage you at 7 hours a day because it’s not possible for a person to work 70
hours a week regularly and not burn out. So, given that we are expecting you to
have a reasonable work schedule, this does NOT give you the right to add another
35 hour/week job on top of our work.  It is expected you will rest and renew the
other days.

To be clear, if we find out you have abused this by taking other significant
jobs, you will be immediately terminated.

 

**You will COMPLETE work to get your full compensation.**

You get paid to do your work regularly and recurring. But, unless there is an
exception, there will also be a bonus component to your compensation when you
get things DONE that are requested of you. This is to ensure you understand that
while we value you working, we value you COMPLETING more than working.  This
will be 20-50% of your total compensation. So, get things done.

If you do not have this bonus component, and you choose to leave the company
with unfinished work with our a graceful transition period as defined by your
offer letter, expect that your last paycheck will be garnished to reflect the
uncompleted work and the lack of transition.

 

**You will only work on items that have been assigned to you, unless otherwise
instructed.  **

You are not to “run up” your hours working on items that, while need to be done,
haven’t been expressly assigned to you.  It’s a common problem that we have that
people run up their hours, continuing to charge for work that is “filler” work,
and doing it slowly.  This is totally unacceptable. It is YOUR job to ensure
that your manager understands what you are doing, when you will be done, and
when you will be free to work on something else.

 

**You will give you manager a status update AT LEAST daily. **

You will update your manager daily on your working activities and how much time
they took, estimated completion, and what you are scheduled to work on next,
delivered in either a slack communication, email, or some other electronic form.

 

**You will check in your code or work daily into our systems. **

At the end of the day, you will check in your work. This means, you will copy it
to one of our repos (as a developer), or copy your working drafts up to our
Cloud File Server (Dropbox).  If we find that you are regularly NOT copying your
work to our servers, this is grounds for immediate termination, as it’s a best
practice.

 

**You working hours will substantially overlap USA East Coast working time. **

If you are a remote employee, and you are working primarily with USA East Coast
personnel, then it is expected that you will substantially overlap with the USA
East Coast timezone for regular work hours.  It’s understood you might be up
early, or leave early, but you must overlap substantially (at least 4 hours)
with the USA East Coast.

In addition, no accommodation will be made to your working schedule, if you
don’t totally overlap USA east coast.  So, for example, if we need to have a
client/customer meeting that you are to be involved in, and the meeting is
scheduled at 4pm eastern time… it is expected that you will accommodate this
schedule and attend.

 

**You are responsible for keeping your computing and Internet up to the tasks.
**

As a remote person/contractor, you are responsible for your own equipment and
communications services. It is expected that you will keep these items
operational so that they do not impact the work and communications we are trying
to have.

Our company regularly uses Google Hangouts with video to have meetings, and
create a sense to team even though we are remote. If your system cannot support
this.. we can’t hear or see you, you can’t communicate reliably, or your setup
always breaks and causes problems, then this is a significant detriment to the
company overall.

If these problems regularly occur, it is grounds for termination.

 

**Everyone gets sick. But, sickness is NEVER allowed to be an excuse.  **

As a remote person/contractor, sometimes you get sick.  That happens, and we do
NOT judge you on this.

However, if you have a scheduled deliverable, it is CRITICAL that you reach your
manager letting them know you are sick and will not make your deliverable, and
to provide a revised estimate.  Letting your manager know after you miss a
deliverable that you were sick is grounds for immediate termination.

In addition, regular recurring sickness, especially around delivery times, will
be grounds for immediate termination. This is not an evaluation of whether you
are really sick or not. What is required is that we get things DONE, and keep
our manager informed.  If regular sickness is impacting that, then there is
little else see can do.

This same rule applies to medical emergencies, family situations, and other
things that all people have.

 

**You cannot start without signing an NDA, Non-compete or solicitations, and
intellectual property agreements.  **

 

**These rules, and all decisions related to your employment and compensation are
ultimately at the discretion of your manager or the leadership of the company.**

At the end of the day, the company and its executive staff have final say on
what happens, what you do, whether it’s acceptable, and what you get paid.
While we will attempt to be fair and reasonable, we have to protect the
interests of the company first and foremost over your personal interests.

There is nothing personal about this. If you don’t follow these rules, and get
your job done, we have to make corrective actions.  These may not be things you
like, and you might disagree with them.  But, the decisions made by the Board of
Directors, and executive team are final and binding.
