Roles
========================

As we work together, we have to have a common description of activities. This
section tries to break down these common terms for better undersatnding.

**Engineering Roles**
- Coming soon


**Growth Roles**

-   If the circus is coming to town, and you paint a sign saying "Circus is coming
    to the Showground on Saturday", that's **advertising**.

-   If you put the sign on the back of an elephant and walk it into town, that is
    **promotion**.

-   If the elephant walks through the mayor's flower garden and the local newspaper
    writes a story about it, that's **publicity**.

-   If you can get the mayor to laugh about it, that's **public relations**.

-   If you get town citizens to go to the circus, showing them the booths, explaining
    how much fun they will have, answering questions, and ultinmately, they spend
    a lot at the circus, that's **sales**.

-   IF you plan the entire thing, that's **marketing**.

Marketing is core to what we do. It's the strategy that ties tactics together.


** Funnel Stages **

-   A **Prospect** is a potential customer that has never been touched. The
    primary goal of this stage is to "Get them to know you and indicate interest."

-   A **Target** is an individually identified prospect engaged in a campaign.

-   A **Lead** is someone we are actively engaging that has responded to an
    offer. The goal of this stage is to "Get them to like you and buy for the
    first time."

-   A **Customer** is someone we hvae closed. The goal is to "Get them to trust
    you and buy form you regularly and after."
