Strategy And Tactics
========================

Understanding the differnece between strategy and tactics is KEY to success.

Strategy is the big picture planning you do prior to execution. Imagine you have
just purchased an empty block of land and want to build a house. Would you just
order a pile of bricks and start laying them? NO, you'd hire a builder and
architect first, and plan.  This work that is done before execution is your
**strategy**.

Once you have a strategy, you know how many bricks you need, where they go, a
and what kind of roof you'll have, you can hire a bricklayer, carpenter, plumber,
etc.  That's **tactics**.

-    You can't do anything worthwhile without both straegy and tactics.

-    Strategy without tactics leads to analysis by paralysis. No matter how good
     the builder and architect are, the house won't get built unless someone
     starts laying bricks.  Strategists will need to, at some point, stop and
     say "The blueprint is now good enough. Let's go start laying some brick."

-    Tactics without strategy leads to "bright shiny object syndrome". Imagine you
     start building a wall without any plans, and figure out its in the wrong
     place, so you start pouring the foundation and figure out its not right
     for teh type of house, so you start excavating the area you want the pool
     and it's not right either. This clearly is a bad idea, but it's how many
     people do their marketing.  Keep turning over rocks until you hit a customer,
     instead of having a plan.

So, having both in alignment is key. As was said by Thomas Watson at IBM in the
early days of the computing age: "Nothing happens until a sale is made."
