Note to Staff: ISMs are the basis for the culture of how we operate. They are about who we are. They are a guide for how to be successful at Audienti. They are a tool for making decisions. They should be discussed. They should be used. And, if you think one of these is wrong, then  discuss it with your team.

**The wall clock matters more than the hourly clock.**

Even if you charge 0 hours for something, there is STILL a cost to it—namely the lost time and overhead of keeping the operation running.  There is the lost productivity of everyone downstream from this deliverable that depend and rely on it.

Therefore, for everything you do, set a date and meet that date.  And, if you’re close, its much better to just burn an extra hour and complete it TODAY—not tomorrow.

If you are going to miss a date, AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, publish a new date for when you will get it done.

The WORST thing you can do in this company is work on something, and get it 90% done, and then quit leaving it for another day \(that might never done\).

**The Chaos will Not be Minimized.**

Building anything great is messy, and OMAlab is no exception. We are pursuing a results-maximizing strategy, not a chaos-minimization or comfort-maximization strategy.

Plus, if this thing succeeds, what we are today will be unrecognizable 2 years from now. So fasten your seatbelts and get ready for some craziness – it’s gonna feel weird, but we’ll figure it out.

**It’s NOT not your job.**

Whatever it says on your business card, your real job is to make OMAlab a success. So be careful about saying “it’s not my job” – if “it” affects our success, it is your job!

Take ownership. Seek to discover hidden projects and backstop them. Always be asking yourself what’s going on and whether it’s good. Trust your gut – if something looks broken, investigate even if everyone else is acting like it’s fine and you feel unqualified to voice a contrary opinion.

Things tend to look weirder as you look closer – turn over the rocks and witness the narsty creepy crawlies squirming underneath. Then tell someone about it – a peer, your manager, a founder; if you’re not speaking up you’re implicitly saying everything’s good.

Whatever it is, don’t assume someone else will notice or take care of it. These are the stakes: Audienti will either become part of the fabric of the Internet, or it will go into the dark.. Which one is up to you.

**Your first iteration of anything sucks. Worse is Better.**

It’s likely that your natural tendency is to be a self-critical,
overly-analytical perfectionist. This comes from a good place, but don’t let it
paralyze you from doing anything at all! First drafts are golden – put one out
there as soon as you can, while you’re still embarrassed by how bad it is, and
perfect it in public. It’s hard to subject something you think is incomplete to
public scrutiny, but it’s the best way to to work toward something great.

By putting it in public, you get critical feedback. You can adapt and change
based on real data. You can spot failures and fix them early. Instead of burying
your head in the sand, and pretending its perfect.

In fact, right now you’re the dumbest you’ll ever be. When possible, postpone
decisions until you’re smarter! You think you know what’s important now, but you
don’t.

Also, if you only allow yourself to put stuff out there when it’s perfect,
you’ll be much more tempted to fill up on bread. It’s much easier to write the
perfect email response than it is to engineer the perfect way to advance the
product \/ community.

Restrict yourself to output that’s perfect and you’ll end up doing only projects
you can execute perfectly in one go, which will be exactly those projects that
don’t matter. Finally, remember: we have nothing to lose! If we fail it will be
because we didn’t seize the opportunity, not because we made too many mistakes.
Ripeness is all.

And, most importantly, feedback from the market is the information you need to
build a successful product.

**There’s a REAL you and a ROLE you. Don’t take it personal.**

In life, you have worth. You have intrinsic value. We believe this, or you
wouldn’t be at this company.

However, you also have a ROLE you. This is the role you play in the company.
And, this role-you can, will, and should often make mistakes. There is always
room for improvement. This failure, and subsequent correction, are simply
expected to happens as you grow in your role.

In fact, if your “role-you” isn’t failing, you’re not trying hard enough.

So, you must learn to NOT take role-failures and role-correction personally. A
failure, an unsuccessful attempt, is just that. It has nothing to do with your
personal worth.

**Take the Roast out of the Oven.**

An “almost done” project is just as valuable to the company as a project you
haven’t started. So always be asking yourself “how has the world changed due to
my work here?” If the world isn’t any different then you haven’t accomplished
anything, no matter how hard you’ve worked!

Effect change on the world by taking the roast out of the oven and finishing the
job. This also means that the worst thing you can do is get a project to “almost
done” and quit. But this is also dangerously easy! Both because it’s probably a
lot more work than you thought to get from “almost done” to “done”, and because
you now have much more information about how valuable the project is and perhaps
it doesn’t look so enticing anymore.

But this doesn’t mean you shouldn’t give up on a bad project just because you’re
close to finishing it – you should ignore sunk costs. What it does mean is that
you should think carefully about how important a project is before you start so
you don’t find yourself wanting to abandon it mid-stream in favor of what’s now
clearly truly important. It also means you should consider releasing your
“almost done” version as-is and perfecting it in public \(if it turns out to need
perfecting at all\) – this way the world will have changed AND chances are the
“almost done” version was better than you thought. Worse is better.

Finally, it’s far more valuable to take the roast out of the oven on one project
than it is to get two projects to being “almost done”. So when working on a
project, force yourself to ignore all the other interesting things you could be
working on until the roast leaves the oven. Focus. Eat one frog at a time.

Being busy != Making Progress

There’s so much going on at Audienti that there are unlimited ways to stay busy.
But beware: just because you’re not on Facebook and are feeling busy and
generally stretched thin and tired doesn’t mean you’re making progress!

Ask yourself: how, through my efforts, is the world different than it was a few
days ago? Have I brought about a positive outcome? Have I pushed things forward?
Or am I offering opinions and making sure things don’t break? Am I pushing my
own agenda for what should happen? Or am I reacting to what the world is
throwing in my face? Am I eating the frog? Or just sharpening pencils? Do I need
to lock myself in a room without Internet to actually get something done?

Think hard about that last one – big hard projects require long, uninterrupted
periods of deep thought and work. You should spend most of your time working on
a single project for multiple hours, either alone or in a small group. No phone
calls, no meetings, no “urgent emails”, no “offering opinions on other stuff
that’s happening”.

**There’s ZERO credit for being right**

And, a ton of credit for being part of the solution.** **Stay cool. It’s not as
bad as it seems. We’ve been through worse. In 6 months no one will care.

There have been so many times in Audeniti's history that we’ve seemed totally
screwed. And yet, historically at least, there’s always been a way out. So,
don’t freak out and just figure out what to do.

But remember, though “staying cool” is difficult, it’s rarely enough! Don’t just
“weather the storm”. Do something to fix the problem!

Finally, complaining is especially toxic during a crisis. Remember: you get ZERO
credit for being right that things were busted, and a TON of credit for turning
a crisis into an opportunity. So stay positive and look for one!

Anything with 2 heads is a freak.

One person owns a task. Even if you need help. If two people are assigned to it,
then its likely to not get done. So, either you own it, or I own it, but someone
owns it.

And, related, if it’s a conditional \(if something then something\), then it won’t
happen. We either do it, or we don’t. We work with solid lines, and boxes.

**Write like a Human, to a Human, In English. **

We all speak english. We write to each other and the rest of the world like we’d
talk to each other. We explain things simply, because if you can’t explain it
simply, then you don’t really understand it.  The more awkward word usements and
technobabble you use, the less sense you make. And, everyone knows it.

Say it like you mean it

Whatever your job, it requires public speaking, or if you’re working with your
team, you have to pitch every day.  No matter what the situation, be\(or just
act!\) excited about the idea you’re sharing. Because if you don’t believe it, no
one else will.This is _your_ thing! Get excited!

What do you propose?

If “what do you propose we do?” would make sense as a response to something
you’re about to say, stop yourself and revise your statement until it
doesn’t. Many things at Audenti are messed up, and it’s your job to help fix
them. But instead of just noting there’s a problem, push yourself to come up
with a suggestion for how to improve things. Be part of the solution.

**Deal with your issues face to face—resolve your tensions. **

If you’re feeling awkwardness \/ weirdness with someone, whether it’s a peer,
your manager, or a founder, talk about it _with them_. Emphasis on the "with
them" – go feel it right to that person’s face. Don’t talk about it with others
first – and if someone comes to you to discuss a problem they’re having with
someone else, your goal should be to get them to talk directly to the person
instead of talking to you.

If you think you should talk to someone, the answer is YES.

**Don’t make the same mistake twice. **

Mistakes and errors are a part of progress. It’s only from problems that we
learn what needs to change.  But, in making mistakes, ensure we close the door
behind us.. so that we don’t make that mistake again. That way, our failures
move us forward, and don’t keep us spinning in a loop.

It should be fun.

Working at Audienti is hard, but it's important that it be fun too! We won't
succeed unless we all do great work, and it’s impossible to do great work unless
you’re feeling inspired and enjoying yourself.

Plus all the ingredients are there – a big hard project to work on with other
talented people! This doesn't mean “force yourself to have fun! Squeeeeze!!” It
means “If you're not having fun, something's wrong and we need to figure out how
to fix it”.

Like many things, the best way to cure a funk is to to talk about it.
Over-communicate your feelings! Talk to your peers, your manager, the founder,
get help! Don’t be sad.

